---
layout: post
categories: blog
title: Advice for Junior Creatives
comments: true
permalink: blog/advice-for-junior-creatives
---

### I was lucky to be hired as a designer and not a junior designer...
but soon enough I realized that the only difference was the prefix, because the responsibilities were the same. I’m only in the third year of my career but I wish I had known some of the things that I know now when I started. (Who doesn’t want a perfect record?) So if you’re a young creative about to finish college and embark on your professional career or if you’re just starting out as a junior at an agency, here are a few words of advice that will (hopefully) help you show your worth.

#### Be prepared to work your ass off, every single second of every day.
Arrive early and be willing to stay late. Not because you have to, but because you’re dedicated. Don’t chomp at the bit to leave right when the clock strikes 5, or maybe even 6. Stick around, make sure that your team is alright, if they’re not then offer to help. Throw some extra time into your projects. Take something from 100% to 110%. Trust me, the extra time spent going over the details is noticed. This is the time for you to show your worth.

#### Check. Double check. Triple check. Quadruple check.
I know what you’re saying. “No shit Sherlock.” “We know. Details, details, details.” Trust me, I have witnessed seasoned veterans getting caught up in minute details while letting obvious mistakes slip through the cracks. Take the time to step away and come back with fresh eyes. The extra fifteen minutes you put in now can save you hours later on.

#### Don’t be a design drone. Ask questions. Communicate.
Far too many times I’ve seen designers become tools who execute other people’s ideas. I was in that boat for some time. But I learned you have to establish yourself as someone who has creative thoughts of their own and is eager to step outside their comfort zone rather than be another cog in the machine. The best designers are constantly asking questions and figuring out better more efficient ways to solve problems. If you have an idea then communicate it. If you don’t understand something, ask. Never stop being curious.

#### Be friendly. Build relationships.
You don’t have to be a social butterfly to forge relationships. You just have to be genuine. Some of the people in this industry are the nicest you’ll ever meet. Go to events, happy hours and meet ups. You won’t be dissapointed. The more you’re involved in the field, the less it feels like “work”. Always keep in mind that the design field isn’t as large as you may think, and being a pushy, stuck-up person reverberate further than you would expect.

#### Don’t forget to have fun.
This one speaks for itself. Every day won’t be a joy ride. Hell, there will be days where you want to rip your hair out. But don’t forget to sit back, laugh and have fun when you get the chance. A large part of what makes being a designer so great is being able to find solutions, and making those solutions look damn good.

