---
layout: post
categories: blog
title: Breathe
comments: true
permalink: blog/breathe
---

> “I promise myself that I will enjoy every minute of the day that is given me to live.”
> ― Thích Nhất Hạnh

A simple quote that I’ve tried to live by. I was born an optimist, even in some of the worst situations I would always search to find a small glimmer of happiness. Something to remind me that the bad must come to balance out the good.

Recently it has been harder to find. Trying to convince myself that this career path is making me happy has become tougher every day that goes by. I don’t feel that same spark when I sit in front of the computer as I did before.

That was the moment I realized that I needed to disconnect. I needed to breathe again and take some time to reflect on where I want to be and what I really want to do.

I’ve been so caught up on social networks, whether a fucking hamburger menu is useful on a site, whether flat design is better, where the fold is on a damn website, that I feel like I’m losing touch with what really matters in life. I don’t wake up ready to enjoy the day. I go into a room full of people and instead of introducing myself and being the outgoing person that I always was, I cower away, run to a corner and just check my phone. **That’s not who I am, who I was or who I want to be.** It’s time for a change, and I made a decision.

At the end of July I’ll be leaving Happy Cog.

It was one of the hardest decision to make. I spent countless nights laying awake wondering what to do and I realized that I had to do what would make me happy. I’ve spent roughly 9 months working with some of the most intelligent people I’ve ever met. I learned more in that time span than I ever have before. It’s hard to leave what I still consider the top of the top, the friendliest, smartest, most hard working group of people out there. But ultimately, design isn’t making me happy and I owe it to myself to search for what will.

What am I going to do? Where am I going to go? Your guess is as good as mine. I don’t know and for once that feels okay. I’m taking some personal time for myself and my fiancee, soon to be wife. Stepping away from the computer, getting away from my phone and just learning to breathe and enjoy the moments again. I want to be me again, not who I’ve become. Of course, there are things that I’ll take with me. Twitter has been monumental in showing me how to wade through all the bullshit and to just be honest. That nothing is wrong with speaking out against the norm. If more people did it, we’d probably progress at an even faster pace.

I’m on a search to do something good. I’m giving more of my time to organizations in Philadelphia, trying to do what I can to grow the community. I want to do more than I am now and I want to do something that will leave a positive mark on the world. I may not leave something behind and change the world like some leaders, but dammit I’m going to try my hardest to do just that.

Will I come back to design? Maybe. Will it be web design? Maybe. Will I even want to be in front of a computer? Maybe. And for now, maybe is perfect.
